README.md, before:

# bones

A work-in-progress CQRS/Rest frameworky thing. Backed by [Onyx](https://github.com/onyx-platform/onyx).
Basically an implementation of the design mentioned here: [From REST to CQRS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qDNPQo9UmJA)

## Prerequisites

Leiningen 2.6.1

Leiningen plugin: git-deps
Add this to your `~/.lein/profiles.clj`
```
{:user
 {:plugins [
            [lein-git-deps "0.0.1-SNAPSHOT"]
```


## Usage

See `src/userspace/core.clj` for intended usage example


## So far so good
After starting the repl


1. `(bootup)` ;; starts onyx for back end
2. `(start)` ;; starts figwheel for front end
3. Then login with "jerry:jerry" as below to get a token
4. Then setup an SSE event listener
5. Then post to a command
6. See the output on the event listener


```bash

curl localhost:3000/login -X POST -H "Accept: application/edn" -H "Content-Type: application/edn" -d '{:username "jerry" :password "jerry"}'

{:token "eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.3P4Xc_6tWAvituAEjfoL_E6XQBdMj-dj.k5y63h1m8TaEq9z4.mGHxq44UDhdGImxa3uGePgH24PNp_FqNhPhesogii2McEEQUInOoW6z4geyoz7AMsp6YrXlakQ.zdCqFcxi6vcYDXayi-RmpQ"}bones (master *)>
```

```bash

curl localhost:3000/api/events?topic=userspace.jobs-output -v -H "AUTHORIZATION: Token eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.viPsYU4tiIbiMw8cWG2K_XxvrWxPd3-4.gd1yeetv-_LfhOG5.tcVTc6dTcZMjTja6MrAbSS7rzYtlnJr4ddrG6NggaImemUROMmHjTKwhGybqAaYYbgf42K4vfw.16eGt0IpAW1Y_FleXdBtyga"
*   Trying ::1...
* Connected to localhost (::1) port 3000 (#0)
> GET /api/events?topic=userspace.jobs-output HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:3000
> User-Agent: curl/7.43.0
> Accept: */*
> AUTHORIZATION: Token eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.viPsYU4tiIbiMw8cWG2K_XxvrWxPd3-4.gd1yeetv-_LfhOG5.tcVTc6dTcZMjTja6MrAbSS7rzYtlnJr4ddrG6NggaImemUROMmHjTKwhGybqAaYYbgf42K4vfw.16eGt0IpAW1Y_FleXdBtyg
>
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Content-Type: text/event-stream
< Cache-Control: no-cache
< Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://localhost:3449
< Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Content-Type,AUTHORIZATION
< Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET,POST,OPTIONS
< Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
< Server: Aleph/0.4.0
< Connection: Keep-Alive
< Date: Fri, 05 Feb 2016 17:35:23 GMT
< transfer-encoding: chunked
<
data: {:command :userspace.jobs/wat, :job-sym :userspace.jobs/wat, :uuid nil, :output {:a "a hammer"}, :input {:weight-kg 500, :name "hello"}}

```


```bash
curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" --header "Accept: application/json" --header "AUTHORIZATION: Token eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.viPsYU4tiIbiMw8cWG2K_XxvrWxPd3-4.gd1yeetv-_LfhOG5.tcVTc6dTcZMjTja6MrAbSS7rzYtlnJr4ddrG6NggaImemUROMmHjTKwhGybqAaYYbgf42K4vfw.16eGt0IpAW1Y_FleXdBtyg" -d "{
  \"message\": {
    \"weight-kg\": 500,
    \"name\": \"hello\"
  }
  }" "http://localhost:3000/api/command/userspace.jobs..wat"

 {"topic":"userspace.jobs..wat-input","partition":0,"offset":1}

```

### Testing CORS
```
curl 'http://localhost:3000/login' -X OPTIONS -H 'Access-Control-Request-Method: POST' -H 'Origin: http://localhost:3449' -H 'Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, sdch' -H 'Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.8' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_10_5) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/47.0.2526.106 Safari/537.36' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Referer: http://localhost:3449/' -H 'Connection: keep-alive' -H 'DNT: 1' -H 'Access-Control-Request-Headers: content-type' --compressed -v
```

## UI
### Testing the form
After starting the repl

1. `(bootup)` ;; starts onyx for back end
2. `(start)` ;; starts figwheel for front end
3. visit localhost:3000 to see the swagger api
4. or go straight to the spa at localhost:3449
5. login with "jerry:jerry"
6. click "Yes" to see that the counter works
7. click "Add who" fill in some values and click submit
8. see the state of the form go through these phases `new -> received -> processed`. It will be pretty fast. If you don't see `proccessed` there was a problem.

### Errors

The websocket connection is commented out in favor of SSE for now.
The SSE/websocket connection to the kafka consumer is very brittle. It
might be possible that there are multiple consumers running which
prevent the browser from getting messages. It might also be possible
that the server and browser don't agree on the protocol (?). Both
connections close and create errors and I don't have an answer for why
right now. Hopefully you will be able to see the full lifecycle of a
request to the processed state. If you do see errors the only answer
right I have right now is to restart the whole repl.






## License

Copyright © 2015 ct

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.

Commit message:

add intended design to readme

README.md, after:

# bones

A work-in-progress CQRS/Rest frameworky thing. Backed by [Onyx](https://github.com/onyx-platform/onyx).
Basically an implementation of the design mentioned here: [From REST to CQRS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qDNPQo9UmJA)

## Prerequisites

Leiningen 2.6.1

Leiningen plugin: git-deps
Add this to your `~/.lein/profiles.clj`
```
{:user
 {:plugins [
            [lein-git-deps "0.0.1-SNAPSHOT"]
```

## Usage

See `src/userspace/core.clj` for intended usage example


## So far so good
After starting the repl


1. `(bootup)` ;; starts onyx for back end
2. `(start)` ;; starts figwheel for front end
3. Then login with "jerry:jerry" as below to get a token
4. Then setup an SSE event listener
5. Then post to a command
6. See the output on the event listener


```bash

curl localhost:3000/login -X POST -H "Accept: application/edn" -H "Content-Type: application/edn" -d '{:username "jerry" :password "jerry"}'

{:token "eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.3P4Xc_6tWAvituAEjfoL_E6XQBdMj-dj.k5y63h1m8TaEq9z4.mGHxq44UDhdGImxa3uGePgH24PNp_FqNhPhesogii2McEEQUInOoW6z4geyoz7AMsp6YrXlakQ.zdCqFcxi6vcYDXayi-RmpQ"}bones (master *)>
```

```bash

curl localhost:3000/api/events?topic=userspace.jobs-output -v -H "AUTHORIZATION: Token eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.viPsYU4tiIbiMw8cWG2K_XxvrWxPd3-4.gd1yeetv-_LfhOG5.tcVTc6dTcZMjTja6MrAbSS7rzYtlnJr4ddrG6NggaImemUROMmHjTKwhGybqAaYYbgf42K4vfw.16eGt0IpAW1Y_FleXdBtyga"
*   Trying ::1...
* Connected to localhost (::1) port 3000 (#0)
> GET /api/events?topic=userspace.jobs-output HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:3000
> User-Agent: curl/7.43.0
> Accept: */*
> AUTHORIZATION: Token eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.viPsYU4tiIbiMw8cWG2K_XxvrWxPd3-4.gd1yeetv-_LfhOG5.tcVTc6dTcZMjTja6MrAbSS7rzYtlnJr4ddrG6NggaImemUROMmHjTKwhGybqAaYYbgf42K4vfw.16eGt0IpAW1Y_FleXdBtyg
>
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Content-Type: text/event-stream
< Cache-Control: no-cache
< Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://localhost:3449
< Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Content-Type,AUTHORIZATION
< Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET,POST,OPTIONS
< Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
< Server: Aleph/0.4.0
< Connection: Keep-Alive
< Date: Fri, 05 Feb 2016 17:35:23 GMT
< transfer-encoding: chunked
<
data: {:command :userspace.jobs/wat, :job-sym :userspace.jobs/wat, :uuid nil, :output {:a "a hammer"}, :input {:weight-kg 500, :name "hello"}}

```


```bash
curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" --header "Accept: application/json" --header "AUTHORIZATION: Token eyJhbGciOiJBMjU2S1ciLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1MiLCJlbmMiOiJBMTI4R0NNIn0.viPsYU4tiIbiMw8cWG2K_XxvrWxPd3-4.gd1yeetv-_LfhOG5.tcVTc6dTcZMjTja6MrAbSS7rzYtlnJr4ddrG6NggaImemUROMmHjTKwhGybqAaYYbgf42K4vfw.16eGt0IpAW1Y_FleXdBtyg" -d "{
  \"message\": {
    \"weight-kg\": 500,
    \"name\": \"hello\"
  }
  }" "http://localhost:3000/api/command/userspace.jobs..wat"

 {"topic":"userspace.jobs..wat-input","partition":0,"offset":1}

```

### Testing CORS
```
curl 'http://localhost:3000/login' -X OPTIONS -H 'Access-Control-Request-Method: POST' -H 'Origin: http://localhost:3449' -H 'Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, sdch' -H 'Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.8' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_10_5) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/47.0.2526.106 Safari/537.36' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Referer: http://localhost:3449/' -H 'Connection: keep-alive' -H 'DNT: 1' -H 'Access-Control-Request-Headers: content-type' --compressed -v
```

## UI
### Testing the form
After starting the repl

1. `(bootup)` ;; starts onyx for back end
2. `(start)` ;; starts figwheel for front end
3. visit localhost:3000 to see the swagger api
4. or go straight to the spa at localhost:3449
5. login with "jerry:jerry"
6. click "Yes" to see that the counter works
7. click "Add who" fill in some values and click submit
8. see the state of the form go through these phases `new -> received -> processed`. It will be pretty fast. If you don't see `proccessed` there was a problem.

### Errors

The SSE/websocket connection to the kafka consumer is very brittle. It
is possible to have multiple consumers running when using the
EventSource(SSE) connection by simply reloading the browser. That is
why the SSE connection will probably be removed (currently commented
out on the client) in favor of the websocket connection. The websocket
connection closes the kafka consumer when the connection to the
browser is closed. Hopefully you will be able to see the full
lifecycle of a request to the `:processed` state. If you do see errors
the only answer right I have right now is to restart the whole repl.



## Intended Design
[![Precursor](https://precursorapp.com/document/Bones-Intended-Architecture-17592202986237.svg?auth-token=)](https://precursorapp.com/document/Bones-Intended-Architecture-17592202986237)






## License

Copyright © 2015 ct

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
